this is the remix edition of my old
shoulders back in arms video I decided
to redo the video to focus on only the
most effective exercises for toning the
back if you have unwanted back fat arm
fat I'm going to show you the most
effective exercises for shedding that
fat off in building muscle if you have
low back pain bad posture I'm going to
show you how you can strengthen these
muscles so you don't suffer from these
lower back pains anymore how to target
your trap muscle your deltoid muscles
your lower lumbar muscles those lap
muscles I'm going to show you how you
can create a much more sculpted back
like this where you create that nice
intention going down your spine as well
as those nice subtle lower back muscles
also you're going to create a much more
lower defined lower back as well and a
lower back obviously that's toned it
leads to an upper but a much more
visible upper butt so you can see how
this is all connected the first exercise
that I'm gonna be using is a compound
exercise which is the barbell row it's a
Close Grip now I have the pad there on
the bar you probably want to have the
pad off the bar so you can put your arms
a little bit closer together because my
arms won't be that close to my body
right here but you can see my knees are
slightly bent I'm using an overhand grip
because this allows me to help me engage
the lat muscles more my back has bent at
about 45 degrees as well and I'm pulling
the bar up to about my belly button here
is the back view as you can see I'm
squeezing my upper back muscles as well
as my lat muscles are engaged here too
you can see if I had that bar if I could
put my hands a little bit closer my arms
would be right next to my sides they
should be that close here's the side
view you can see my triceps are engaged
as well so this is not just working my
back muscles total body workout when you
go to the wide grip you might want to
stagger you know your stance like this
go right is right here picking up the
bar like a deadlift if you need to and
then just move your legs closer together
because obviously when you're doing the
barbell rows your legs shouldn't be that
wide apart but if you need to lift the
bar off the ground go ahead and do so
the wide grip you want to switch back to
an overhand grip and you really want to
squeeze your upper back muscles here's
the back for you here you can see I'm
squeezing my back muscles there really
want to pinch those shoulder blades the
next one is the side arm raises
these are very effective at toning your
triceps as well as your shoulders which
is your deltoid muscle as well as even
working a little bit your trap muscles
in some of the upper back so you can see
your muscles are not isolated they work
together they like to work together here
is the side arm raises with a bar a bent
arm variation so just in case if you
can't do the straight arms which put too
much pressure on your elbows or your
shoulders you can do the bent arm
variation which is what I'm doing right
here very effective exercise though
still very effective and you can do
these in in in rotation you know pretty
much without kind of we not with about
you know 10 10 second rest which is what
I'm doing right here and then go
straight to the front arm raises right
here and these are half raises and you
pretty much want to do these in premise
until you fatigue and then you want to
rest again and then here I'm going to
actually be going to the front arm
raises where I'm going to be doing a
full extension all the way up 180
degrees these are much more better
actually right here because they give
you the full rotation of your joint
there here's a seated shoulder press
these are very effective at working your
shoulders as well as upper back as well
you can do this on a seated bench
obviously right here
here's the standing shoulder press these
put a lot more pressure on your lower
back so you want to be more careful in
performing these you want to use more
moderate weight you might want to
support your lower back by using this
white belt that I'm showing here you
also want your feet are going to be
shoulder width apart in width and you
want to have maybe one foot staggered
behind the other to kind of help support
your lower back
next is the deadlift conventional or
Romanian excellent working the lat
muscles lower back as well as the
hamstrings and glutes of course you
would probably form this on a deadlift
day though now some people might say
what's the point of working your back if
the deadlift works your back muscles
already well it doesn't really work your
upper back muscles but yes if you're a
female that doesn't store a lot of fat
on your upper back you're pretty toning
your upper back then you could probably
get away with just perform the Dead list
because they work you know your your lap
muscles in lower back but I encourage
everybody to perform at least one upper
back exercise just to create some subtle
you know muscle in your upper back and
just make sure you're nice and tight in
your upper back and arms as well you can
also perform they have back hip
extensions excellent working the lower
back as well as the hip flexor muscles
and the glutes you can use the bench or
you can use a ball exercise ball like
this you can also use machines to the
row machine obviously I don't encourage
machines but you can use the machine
obviously the row machine excellent it's
pretty much similar to the barbell with
a closed grip and the lat pulldown
machine pretty much equivalent to the
barbell with a wide grip if you can
perform a good number of pull-ups then
there are very effective exercises as
well here's just a rundown of the
exercises on you know what kind of sets
and reps you might want performing for
each exercise you can throw some of
these in like for instance I don't have
back hip extensions in here so you can
you know throw that in one week and do
shoulder press another the next weeks or
something like that and you can also
hold a two back if you want to but it's
best to just perform it on the chest day
and just kind of a rundown
you can obviously tailor that to your
fitness level but the point is just
performing some more extra just
incorporating some back exercises into
your workouts will create a much more
effective toned body obviously following
the proper nutrition you'll create a
much more sculpted body